It's 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
and here in Hong Kong, you're watching
the China Show. I'm Annabelle Drooers
with David and Glas.
>> Good morning. We are counting down to
the open of markets here in Hong Kong.
Our top stories today, oil is steadying
near a six-month high at these levels
while stocks are under pressure and
growing fears of a US strike on Iran.
Yeah, this is as President Trump says
Tyrron has up to 15 days to strike a
deal over its nuclear program as the US
amasses an array of forces in the Middle
East.
>> Also ahead, Blue Al Capital restricting
withdrawals from one of its private
credit funds, raising fresh concern over
risks in a $ 1.8 trillion market.
>> And how India's tech giants are
investing in AI as the nation seeks to
become a key hub. We speak to IT
services firm Whipro was the at the AI
impact summit in New Delhi.
Good morning. Welcome to the program.
And uh two things top of mind for me at
least the reopen of markets here in Hong
Kong cash markets of course. So we'll
see what happens there. Uh pricing while
you were sleeping
not very clear as far as what the open's
likely going to look like. Let's call it
flat maybe. Of course we're looking at
some specific names but we'll get to
that in a moment. The other thing of
course top of mind for me as well is
energy and oil prices and really what
this means is slow boil uh on the Middle
East story as it pertains to Iran and of
course that pop over 70 bucks on Brent
is something I'm tracking too.
>> Yeah, it's kind of the risk that you
wonder have the markets been sleeping on
a little bit. I mean you've seen that
premium starting to get baked into oil
prices of course above that 70 level but
there's a lot of risks and there's
really a lot of unknowns as to to what
sort of strike the US would look to to
take. Would it be something that's
shorter term, more sustained? They're
certainly building up a presence that
could sustain something over the longer
term, but but then exactly how does
Tyrron retaliate and then what kind of
position are they given that they seem
to be coming back stronger uh from from
actions from the US last year, but also
Israel? No.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And I think what
you're seeing in the oil markets
and I'll even include not just what
you're seeing on spot and futures,
right? So even like things like the call
skew for example to the upside. So it
looks like markets are are positioning
for something not so much as a tail risk
but something that we are largely within
the sort of realm of possibilities. But
the other thing I point out too just so
we don't we're not sort of over
sensationalizing what's happening here
as far as the price action is concerned
right it's not as if we are getting a
massive dislocation in markets and rush
to safety just yet. Now of course
headline driven and we'll see what
happens with this. there is a broad
sense of risk aversion in the markets
anyway which we'll get to uh I guess in
a moment on top of that uh obviously you
mentioned uh the the massive AI
conference taking place in India and the
conversation we'll be having there as
well a lot of news of course on the AI
front not to mention of course the two
big individuals you know u not not
wanting to hold their hands um on stage
yesterday
>> that was great imagery I think of of of
Samman from open open AI rather and the
anthropic CEO just yeah close but but
definitely not touching There's a lot of
concerns about the the ads that were run
during the Super Bowl and of course
Anthropic's been winning a lot of
enterprise customers. Just to note as
well, a story that's doing that's sort
of climbing up the charts this morning
is from the FT. Uh but they are looking
about this or this this current funding
round with Nvidia because they're
looking to raise around to OpenAI rather
looking to raise around hundred billion
dollars just from their their
cornerstone investors or or from big
tech essentially. Uh but now we're
hearing that Nvidia is not going to be
proceeding perhaps with that letter of
intent that was signed last year that
could have given them up to hundred
billion investment. They're looking just
at $30 billion in this current funding
round
>> which if you you put the reporting
together would suggest it's still a
sizable portion of the current funding
round but I guess TBC uh what what's
beyond the current one which is quite
sizable anyway as far as the 100 plus
billion of course that we were reporting
uh yesterday. All right let's put
everything together for you as far as
the market narrative is concerned.
Right. So we start with oil. You have
Brent, you have West Texas, you have the
energy complex in Australia uh which was
up 4% yesterday. We're sideways. We're
still holding on uh to about these price
levels, I think, fortunately, and we'll
see what happens with headlines. Of
course, we are not extending the gains
that we had coming into uh this Friday
morning, the Asia Pacific. Um let's have
a look at gold. So I think we were back
above this is spot that's coming up on
your screens. U there we go. It's still
above 5,000. The dollar is giving up
some strength after putting together you
know a string of four days of gates as
far as that's concerned. Some technical
levels to watch in the euro were just in
fact just now at these levels just a
touch below uh the 50-day moving average
Cosby odds and Singapore. Singapore is
coming online. No Taiwan yet uh today.
No mainland China no Vietnam. We
mentioned of course Hong Kong is coming
online. In fact, just on that very note,
futures in Singapore on A50, futures in
Hong Kong on A50 on your screens. There
we go. Okay, we are looking at declines
likely going into the Friday session.
Dollar China on your screens as well.
>> All right, let's get more into, as we
said, one of our top two stories today.
That is the US military gathering forces
in the Middle East. That includes two
aircraft carriers, fighter jets, and
refueling tankers. Speaking aboard Air
Force One, President Trump warned that
Iran has about 15 days to strike a deal
over its nuclear program.
>> We're either going to get a deal or it's
going to be uh unfortunate for them. I
would think that'll be enough time 10 15
days pretty much maximum.
>> Let's get more with our Bloomberg
Politics editor Laura Davidson joining
us here with the latest. So, it's
obviously very fastm moving and and we
don't know exactly what shape this could
take, but but what is the most important
thing that you're watching right now?
>> So, a couple different things. One, uh
Trump saying 10 to 15 days. What is
important about 10 to 15 days? Trump is
getting impatient, and that's the
deadline he set. So, there's no um hard
and fast uh reason why there needs to
necessarily be a deal cut in those times
unless Trump says there is. And so, he
is kind of right now he's in the moment
where he is preserving all his
optionality. they're have amassing all
of these forces in the region. This is a
much much bu bigger buildup than we saw
in Venezuela. Um so they could do, you
know, something like a targeted strike,
but also, you know, like we saw um last
July with just looking at nuclear sites,
they could go bigger looking at uh you
know, perhaps Iranian military sites or
perhaps uh even target some of the
Iranian leadership. That would be a huge
really change of course where this is.
Trump and the White House really haven't
indicated that they want um some sort of
massive um military strike, but they
want to have the leverage to say, "Look,
here's what we could do to try to force
these negotiations forward."
>> Okay. So, what exactly just given the
backdrop of recent talks? What is it
that the president, US president wants
Iran to do here?
>> He isn't quite sure that at least is
from all the indications here, he wants
some sort of deal here. He wants them to
back down. He wants to also keep
Netanyahu happy through all of this. So
he has a lot of different different
pieces here, but he wants ultimately to
say, "Look, I was able to, you know, put
the Iranian regime into submission. I
was able to extract some sort of um
economic deal, create peace and
stability in the region." That is the
ultimate outcome he's looking for. And
we're in this point here where we have
tension between that these details are
really tricky. You've got a lot of um
you know, a lot of history and a lot of
geopolit geopolitical nuance where Trump
doesn't really care all that much about
that. He wants to be able to get a deal,
but you have the kind of the expert
level people, the technocrats who are
trying to to advance these talks
forwards and Trump saying, "Let's just
go. Let's get it done." You know, let's
worry about the details later.
>> All right, Laura, thank you so much.
Laura Davis there, our Bloomberg
politics editor. In fact, you're just
looking at some data right now, right?
We were we were talking about how much
is baked into the oil markets right now.
So, our folks at Bloomberg Economics
actually ran some numbers. I'm going to
look at this right now for you guys as
well. Right? So when you look at the oil
price very quickly here, so we've gone
from let's call it 10 11 bucks on the
oil price from the start of the year up
until where we that's the white line you
see on your screens, right? Uh so what
else are we looking at here? So uh the
you have obviously demand and supply,
right? How does that feed into the oil
price? That's a constant feature that
drives the oil price as well. We talk
about over supply. That's a net negative
as far as the oil price uh draw is
concerned. you have net demand
contribution as well at the very top.
Now, every now and then you have the
spikes in geopolitical risk premium
that's get built into the oil price
here. So, what we're looking at here is
ever so slowly
the purple bars you see on your screens
is adding to the premium and our folks
at Bloomberg economics have put out this
fantastic piece and model at currently
currently that level is at about five
bucks right given the information that
we have right now. Now, that is just to
say if all this goes away, that five
bucks goes away. That could also blow up
to the extent we saw back in June of
last year uh when Israel was involved in
of course that massive spike in oil
prices. But as things stand, you can
check this out. Of course, we're
currently at five bucks. If you remove
the tension, we go back to about 66
uh per barrel. But of course, a lot will
depend on what happens these next few
days.
Yeah, I think a really big question for
instance, does Tyrron look to close the
the straight of Hummus for instance
where a lot of those oil tankers are
passing through which would obviously
drive up prices. But let's get more on
this now and bring in James Jeffrey.
He's distinguished fellow at the
Washington Institute, also a former US
ambassador to Iraq and Turkey and
advised the George W. Bush
administration on Iran. So, thank you
very much for taking the time to to
speak with us this morning, James. And I
want to talk about the scenarios that
you're mapping out here because as we
were just saying, this is the the
biggest deployment that we've seen to
the region from the US going all the way
back to the early 2000s. What are the
different scenarios that you're mapping
out and what do you think is most likely
here?
>> Um, thanks for having me on. Donald
Trump wants a deal, but it has to be a
real deal. It probably will have to
include either no enrichment or
extraordinarily tight limits and
inspection of any enrichment that's
allowed. That is, it has to be better
than the 2015 JCPOA that Barack Obama
negotiated. Uh
Donald Trump is willing to roll the dice
on military actions. We've seen that
repeatedly. I served uh with on the
Middle East with him in the last
administration. and he took out Iran's
uh um concigliari for the entire region.
Kasummani uh in a strike. You saw what
he did to the Fod nuclear site. You saw
what he did to Venezuela. He's prepared
to do this again and he has the force to
do it. He doesn't want to do it, but he
will. That's the difference. And the
Iranians may not get that. This is not
Barack Obama they're dealing with.
>> Okay. What what what then do you think
uh ambassador do you think is the
probability of some form of strike over
the next let's call it two or three
days?
>> I don't think over the next two or three
days there's a chance of a strike but I
didn't think so when uh he said the
Iranians had two weeks to negotiate last
June and then he struck Fodro several
days later along with the Israelis. So
Trump is capable of doing Trump does not
believe and we don't believe we who are
following Iranian affairs very closely.
We don't believe the Iranians really get
this guy.
>> They think they're dealing with the
Americans. Uh they think that they can
just draw us out, wait for the election
season to kick in. The ships cannot
remain all that long on station. Uh and
Trump knows that. They know that. So
therefore, he's going to press them to
make real concessions very quickly or he
will strike. He may do an initial strike
that will be limited but he will make it
be clear that he will do a more dramatic
strike. Now in terms of the oil markets
uh the danger is that if he does not
target the Iranian oil exports directly
I don't think the Iranians will close
the straits of Hormuz because that will
really infuriate their biggest partner
which is China. Um, but if we do take
out the Iranian export capability, their
infrastructure and such, then the
Iranians will have nothing to lose and
that will really have, as you folks can
crunch the numbers better than I, a huge
impact on uh the short-term oil supply.
>> So, Ambassador, the message we're
getting, at least I'm getting from you,
is for Iran to treat the threat as
incredibly credible. Um, apart from, and
I guess there's no diplomatic way of
putting it, apart from having a gun
pointed to its head, what motivations do
you think Iran has to strike a deal with
with Donald Trump? It's something that
we can trust beyond the current
proverbial, you know, treating the the
threat as credible.
>> David, that's a key point. The Iranian
regime, having gone through the
tremendous losses it suffered in what
was a two-year war with Israel, US,
eventually the Turks in Syria and others
um are in a very weak position and then
they had the huge uprising of their own
population. Their goal is regime
survival.
We think that right now they believe
that even taking some hits by the United
States military hits is less of a threat
to the regime survival than yielding to
Washington and looking weak in the eyes
of a population that's quite capable of
rising up again like they did four or
five weeks ago. So that's the
calculation that they're making. The
problem is Trump knows this and Trump I
think if he does go for a major
operation will go for what we call um
going for the head shop uh taking out
the leadership and pushing the country
into chaos. He's capable of doing that.
In terms of the negotiation side, the US
and and Iran are still divided over
several key red lines that includes
nuclear enrichment, sanctions relief.
Where do you think then is is the most
likely area for some movement forward
given we're now up against this sort of
arbitrary but up to 15-day deadline.
>> Certainly enrichment. What Trump is
trying to do, and he deserves credit for
this, is to lock in and make permanent
so we finally don't have, and boy, I've
been deployed four or five times to the
region. So we don't have this perpetual
cycle of violence that you don't see in
Europe, despite the Ukraine war, that
you don't see in East Asia, despite uh
some provocative actions by China. In
the Middle East, it's Perils of Pauline.
It's rock and roll all of the time.
Trump wants to end this. It cannot be
ended as long as Iran has the capability
of reconstituting its nuclear threat.
That's the problem. That has to go away.
If it doesn't go away, he'll use
military force.
>> Ambassador, final question. How does
this we, you know, we we we can tend to
get lost in in the day-to-day and the
noise? How does this fit into the
broader strategy
of the US and the Middle East? And how
does it even fit into the broader even
broader strategy of competing with
China?
Boy, you're right on target here. Uh
Trump is trying to do two things. He has
a base, including a vice president that
are very reluctant to engage in the
world, engage in military operations.
But Trump wants to himself because he
knows if we don't do this, it's going to
be chaos and that will make America
weaker, more at risk, less prosperous.
So he is engaging. His national security
strategy says we will do everything
necessary to ensure no one power
dominates, that's the specific word,
dominates the Eurasian island. So in the
end, all of this is also looking at
China. He knows that if the Chinese
don't believe Donald Trump is going to
pull the trigger, the Chinese might risk
an operation. I think uh President G
said be ready by 2028 2027 might risk an
operation against Taiwan thinking that
Trump will back down. So Trump has to
make sure that people understand the
American commitment and the American uh
willingness credibility. This is
something that I worked in the White
House for Bush. We think about it all
the time.
>> Ambassador, really great to have you.
That was the Washington Institute
distinguished fellow and former US
ambassador James Jeffrey there. And uh
just as we've been speaking, there's
actually been President Trump posting on
True Social, but some different
commentary this morning. He's saying
that the US will begin releasing files
relating to aliens and UFOs. Now, the
background on this is that uh recently
or President Trump has been accusing
former President Barack Obama of giving
away classified information on a recent
podcast appearance. uh he has suggested
on Air Force One that he could get uh
essentially Barack Obama out of trouble
by declassifying the related information
around that. Barack Obama spoke about
the existence of of USOS or his views
around that. But we'll get more details
on that as it comes to hand counting
down of course the open of trade in Hong
Kong. This is the China show.
Welcome back to the China show. We are
counting down to the open of markets in
Hong Kong this morning. Futures are
looking like we're going to see a bit of
weakness at the open here. Uh in terms
of what we're going to be tracking in
particular, a number of different
things. You've got Miniax, for instance.
We've seen more analysts continuing to
initiate coverage on that stock. Hersai
for instance, one of the biggest gainers
on the Golden Dragon index in this time.
We've got jobs data coming up. Lots of
sectors to watch of including of course
energy given the spike we've seen in oil
prices, precious metals uh given the
moves as well in those. And you've also
been watching uh highore.
>> Yes, I think we are. This is on the one
month rate. We're at three month lows in
that. And of course after just a couple
of days, we'll get an update what that
looks like uh in about 2 hours uh from
now. Okay, let's let's talk about these
markets, right, as we approach the open
first trading session in Hong Kong, year
of the year of the horse. Uh, joining us
now is Yen Wang, chief EM and China
strategist at investment research firm
Alpine Macro. Yen Wang, good morning
from Hong Kong. Thank you for joining
us. I think we need to wait a few days
before mail markets come back online.
Uh, but I just want to get your initial
take that, you know, the start to the
year hasn't been the brightest when you
look at greater Chinese markets, at
least comparatively, right? when you
look at markets like Korea, Taiwan, in
fact even large pockets of US equities.
Uh why do you think explains the uh what
what explains the underperformance you
think?
I think there um in Chinese markets um
we don't have the like the super hot
sectors um recent you know uh the
sectors that have been really hot uh
more recently right so you know we have
the um the hardware tax sector which is
Taiwan and Korea and also we have the
commodity story which is in LATAM so in
China it's kind of in the middle um I
think now for China it's still kind of a
macro call um whether the Chinese
economy is able to improve. I think you
know the Chinese stocks are still quite
cheap but there's not just not enough
interest uh uh at this moment. The
market has gone up quite a bit but on
the other hand there's not a lot of uh
like hot stories um investors can uh can
put their money uh to to work. So I
think I think that's probably the
reason.
>> Why aren't there enough hot stories? I
mean we have had some cause for
optimism. For instance, we've seen a
wave of of upgrades around AI and and
different foundation models in the last
few days. You compare that to to what
you get in the US, for instance, and
that's enough to to to spur quite a lot
of trading activity.
>> Yeah. But but you you you know, if we
compare with Taiwan and Korea, they they
clearly their hardware is very deeply in
embedded in the AI boom. So I think they
are the more direct beneficiaries of
this this investment boom in the space.
Um and also on on the uh on the left
hand side you know base metal prices
have been really strong. Um so that has
also pushed a lot of capital into that
space. So I think China is kind of in
the middle. Um doesn't really fit into
both uh uh camps. Um but I I think going
forward I still think uh Chinese markets
uh should continue to move higher um you
know I think whether China will will
continue to outperform or underperform I
think my my uh my view is China will
likely uh outperform uh for the year um
because um the key event uh that
investors still need to keep in mind
will be um the policy choices that
Beijing would have you know will tell us
uh in the people's congress next month.
So what kind of you know safety policies
uh what measures Beijing will have to do
to really boost domestic demand. I think
that is still um the there's still a lot
of expectation uh going into that. So I
I think for the rest of the year I still
think China Chinese market should do
well.
Interesting because that that the two
the two meetings are coming up I think
within the next two 3 week window. Maybe
you could be more specific because
that's largely
uh you know we know that happens every
year. We know when it's going to happen.
So you know analysts have a lot of time
to muse over what's to come. Uh any new
information you think we might get uh
that we should be watching out for.
>> I think most likely um boosting domestic
demand will be the most important
message out of this congress. You know
if you towards the end of last year um
uh magazine published a a an article
authored by president sizing you know I
think in that piece basically it's a
summary of all the uh speeches that he
gave in the past couple years on the
importance of boosting domestic domestic
demand both consumption and capital
spending. So I think um in this current
environment you know Chinese um the
Chinese economy faces a lot of external
uncertainty um both geopolitical and
also on trade front. So I think boosting
domestic demand has become the only
major like an untapped resources that
Beijing can use to boost growth. So I
think most likely uh we're going to see
some policy surprises on that front.
>> We'll unpack that further with Yen Wang.
Two things I want to point out. Uh he he
says animal spirits are reemerging
number one. And when you look at the
housing downturn, it's not a problem of
demand on the part of consumers. More
from him from Alpine Macro in a couple
of minutes uh as we approach the open.
Speaking of the reopen of markets here
in Hong Kong, Hen Tech, Hangen, China,
Dollar Chan on your screens. We are
poised to open lower uh this Friday, 710
to 1% specifically on the Hen Tech
index. Yeah, I think the hang san tech
is going to be really closely watched
because I was just taking a look at
how's the golden dragon index been doing
and actually it's been lower for six
straight sessions. So, it doesn't bode
that well. Uh even though you've got
some stocks that are going to of course
be moving to the upside. We were just
talking about Hersai for instance
earlier. Uh they they were one of the
biggest gainers during this period. Of
course, they've also been added uh to to
to index changes for Hong Kong as well.
Actually, you can see already in in
pre-market, of course, making that jump
there. Miniaax Group is another one
because it's had a wave of of of
analysts initiating coverage on it that
includes UBS Jeffrey. So, more upside
seen for that one as well. Oil stocks to
track of course given all of these
developments around Iran. Uh we are
seeing oil that has been moving above
that $70 a barrel level, but also uh
you're seeing these oil companies in
China that are moving to the upside and
precious metals of course given the
moves that we have been seeing in those
markets of late. Again, further gains
here. But you're watching the China
show. The open of Hong Kong is next
following the Luna New Year break. This
is Bloomberg.
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. We're counting down to the uh open
of reopen of markets here in Hong Kong.
Markets remain shut uh as long as as
well as other uh some other markets
across the region. Uh we're looking at
likely some weakness going into the open
today. We're looking at of course events
in the Middle East and uh markets are
gauging the probability of an escalation
there military-wise of course as it
pertains to Iran and and the US. Um, and
apart from that, I can't help but think,
and you know, we're going to go over
this this this truth social post from
the US president has a lot of the world
trying to divvy up their sort of their
information and attention span here.
>> Yeah, I mean, UFOs we can we can put to
the side for a moment, but that has
certainly of course been very much read
in the last few minutes. Let's take a
look though because Hong Kong markets
are just coming back. Uh this is the
first day of trading for the year of the
horse and and we're coming online to to
some fairly muted muted moves rather but
you're seeing most of those losses so
far building into the hangen tech gauge.
Now I'm not too surprised about that
because I looked at the golden dragon
index and I saw it been down for six
straight sessions. Uh so so of course it
just sort of sets that tone that we've
seen really whilst Hong Kong has been
shut. But you are seeing some big losses
there. Alibaba for instance still trying
to really get the nuance of that one.
But it is one of the biggest lagards off
2.8%. an 8% bu as well declining more
than 3% at this stage even though
actually to say Alibaba's uh this is
according to Jeffre but but has seen
some pretty good ordering of items uh
through through the Luna New Year break.
Let's actually shift on and take a look
because we had the holiday data out or
some early indications of this and what
it tells us so far is that there's been
a 4% increase in passenger trips over
this time. So we can take a look at some
of those travel stocks how they're
fairing. uh the likes of of the airlines
for instance also keeping a watch on on
what other names are doing. You can see
here as well uh what's happening with
with some of the different other sectors
we're tracking. So Miniax for instance
very big gains here seen a suite of of
of analysts that have started initiating
coverage and they're all pretty bullish
on the outlook for the stock as well.
Her side group we've already mentioned
it a couple of times but they were one
of the biggest gainers uh on the Golden
Dragon index during the last few
sessions. Kingsoft cloud though again it
dropped around 5% on the golden dragon
index. You're seeing that also being
reflected today. Uh let's change on take
a look at some of the other sectors that
we're focusing in on today. So oil of
course as we've been discussing has been
a big one. Travel stocks as well just to
to wrap that up. We did see as I said
that 4% increase in in passenger travel.
But you can see here those moves a bit
to the downside. Going back to oil and
that story there because we've seen it
steadying around a six-month high. got a
lot of questions around how exactly does
President Trump proceed given he's now
set this deadline of 15 days or up to 15
days uh for for Iran to strike a deal
over its nuclear program. We have seen
oil as we said moving to the upside and
you can see again those oil majors in
China reacting accordingly. Yeah, you
know, 10 to 15 days is somewhat the same
time duration as the other sort of
element of time that the US president
also favors which is about two weeks. Um
the fact that he's more specific does
tell you I mean give you a slightly
sense of urgency I guess uh in terms of
his decision making there which was uh
of course what Laura was pointing out to
us earlier on. Anyway uh once we do do
have developments on Iran of course we
pro I promise you we will get them to
you as soon as we can. Uh let's uh open
up uh the the outlook for Chinese
markets while we are waiting for that
other story to to uh come to fruition
here. Uh Yen Wang is still with us,
chief uh chief chief em and China
strategist at Alpine Macro. Uh Yang the
you're the underlying thesis that you
have and you know we were talking during
the break was that you think Chinese
consumer confidence comes back this year
and not a lot of people in the market
appreciate that probability that it
does. What gives you that confidence?
>> Yes. So I I think probably more
important point would be the business
confidence will come back earlier than
than business then consumer confidence
because you know consumer confidence to
some extent was dragged down by by very
poor high hirings, very poor uh wage
growth, very poor labor market. So I
think if um so if in the past couple
years what we had was a kind of downward
spiral between very weak household uh
business hiring and then household
demand. So you know both they were
chasing uh uh forming this kind of
downward sparrow. Uh but I think in the
past couple of months we began to detect
some signal that the business confidence
uh is beginning to improve. I was in
China during the holiday break. Um I I
was talking to some people and and also
even just from the from the data towards
the end of last year we saw a lot of uh
mergers and acquisition deals. Um so you
know all these kind of things were quite
recent. So to me I think that's probably
the more important point for us to try
to monitor. If indeed uh uh the private
enterprises their confidence began to
improve then um the economy will feel a
lot stronger and then after that I think
consumer confidence uh will also
improve. So then the kind of downward
spiral that we saw in the past couple
years will become some kind of positive
feedback loop. To me I think that will
be the the uh the catalyst uh for growth
for a genuine growth upturn uh that uh
we can anticipate.
And and how does that then
also feed into the property sector?
Because this has really been one of the
biggest drags on consumer confidence as
well. Just the amount of household
wealth that was tied up into the
property sector. What's the relationship
then that you see?
>> Yeah. So, so clearly uh if the Chinese
um consumer confidence can indeed
improve, then I think the economy will
feel stronger. Uh but I think on the
other hand the housing market you know
we need to realize the Chinese housing
downturn has um has been happening for
has been going on for over four years
now right from the peak if we look at
sales construction uh housing starts
housing completion so all these uh uh
indicators in the housing market are
down from like 60 to 80%. So I think you
know no you know in in in economics
nothing falls forever. Um so I think now
we are more clo we are close obviously
we're closer to the to the bottom uh uh
than any time uh in the past couple
years. U so from that point of view I I
um I doubt uh this year housing will
give us more more uh u negative impulse
on on the growth front. So for me I
think more important uh indicators for
us to monitor really would be what kind
of uh uh policies Beijing uh would boost
uh in terms of the domestic demand. So
to me I think that's the key message
Beijing was telling us uh in the past
couple of months. Um so if you know if
this is um really if Beijing is able to
do something on that I believe uh the
economy will feel stronger uh compared
with uh in the past couple years. So I
don't think the Chinese housing market
>> Sorry.
No, go please finish your thoughts sir.
>> Yeah. So, so I I think you know if we
look at some surveys right obviously how
Chinese housing demand is still quite
weak at this moment but if we look we
read some surveys from think tanks from
from uh uh the government agencies the
factor that why that fact the reasons
why potential home buyers are not taking
action now are not buying uh is not
because there's no genuine demand. The
more important factors are you know
re-entry rates are still high they
believe you know maybe developers may
default on their delivery. So I think
all these kind of confidence and
financial considerations are more
important constraints on Chinese housing
demand. So how why the putting putting
downward pressure on Chinese housing
demand but there is still like you know
if you read those surveys uh people very
few very little percentage of people
actually claim they do not have genuine
demand for housing. So I don't think
there's a real demand issue. This is
more of a confidence issue.
>> Right. If I'm just fracking my brain
now, the I if I recall the definition
for demand e in economic economic theory
is not just it's it's both the
willingness and the ability to take
advantage of that. Right. So, so from a
policy perspective then if it's not a if
it's not a demand issue, if it's a say
financing issue,
are there specific leading indicators
that you think we should be watching on
for for the you know for the overall uh
for the overall numbers to start
turning?
>> Well, I think I think there are still a
lot of room for for Chinese for Beijing
to really ease uh um their restrict uh
uh housing policies, right? so that they
can begin to think about providing
subsidies on uh on mortgage interest
rates uh mortgage interest payment they
can they can further lower uh uh
mortgage interest rates so I think all
these kind of things can still help uh
uh the to improve the affordability and
also on top of that you know home prices
have fallen by like 30 40% from the peak
so clearly affordability has improved uh
significantly over the past couple years
so I think any any measure
any measure that can really help uh to
improve further improve affordability,
reduce the uh uh the the um
uh the cost of owning a home or buying a
home. I think that's uh will will have
impact will have positive impact on
really revitalizing housing demand.
>> Okay. You mentioned in the earlier
segment that you think Chinese markets
outperform this year. If if all these
things we just talked about now start to
turn, how does that affect investment
strategy and market leadership
specifically? What are the best
opportunities right now before it
becomes apparent?
>> I I think Chinese market first of all is
still quite depressed comp you know
compared with the rest of the world
compared with historical trends. So from
that point of view you know we there's
still still quite strong value
proposition in the market. Um so to
capitalize on that I believe um maybe we
should hold like two segments of the
market. On one hand uh you want to have
exposure to the high tax sector high
growth sector. On the other hand, uh I
think uh we should have exposure to the
deep value sector too because you know I
think you know the fact is in China
there's a lot tremendous amount of
savings and I my uh um my thesis is uh
if the market continues to go up then
the mark the the price action itself can
drive a lot of savings into the equity
market and you know if think about it
right so you know if you uh households
they're they they put their deposits in
banks they g they they gain 1% interest
rate but if they like Chinese banks
their the dividend yield is four 5%. So
I think you can still have that kind of
uh um uh valuation gap that that pro
that would be quite attractive for
households to move money. So to me I
think this is kind of almost feel like
barbell right. So on one hand you want
to have the t tax growth sector but on
the other hand you want to have some
kind of value that can be very
attractive for for households to to
attract their their liquidity.
>> Yan Wang, thanks very much for joining
us. Great to have you this morning. That
was the chief EM and China strategist at
Alpine Macro there. And there's a lot
more markets coming up because we've got
Vantage joining us to tell us about how
investors can manage hedges against
resurgent uh geopolitical risk. We'll
have much more ahead on the China show.
Hong Kong markets back for the first day
of trading post the Luna New Year break.
This is Bloomberg.
Right. The big news, the other big news
overnight, Blue Al Capital. Yeah, big
one here. Uh, so it says it will
restrict withdrawals from one of its
retail focused private credit funds.
Now, the move reverses a previous plan
to resume redemptions this quarter. Uh,
let's head to New York now and bring in
our private credit reporter, Olivia
Fish, who has a story for us. And I
mean, it's the retail investor that was
one of the, you know, the operative
phrases that caught my eye here. What
does this mean for retail investors who
have maybe gotten in very recently into
private credit?
>> Yeah, definitely. It's it's a great
question and I think one of the main
things that that retail investors should
be considering right now is how illquid
are these assets? Are these funds that
I'm going to get my money back in? And I
think as we've seen um Blue has been
able to return capital back. But it's
just an important lesson that you know
these are retail vehicles that are being
offered to retail investors but the
underlying loans that they hold are
illquid private credit loans.
>> How concerned do we need to be as well
about the types of companies that Blue
is exposed to? I mean one of its most
notable concentrations is in the
software industry for instance which is
obviously facing quite an existential
crisis at this point in time.
>> Definitely. Yeah. I think that obviously
that is something investors are are
worried about is the the level of
software exposure and I think that's why
we've seen actually a lot of investors
look to to pull money out of these funds
and and it's interesting actually that
you know because Blue did return capital
to investors and that that's why they
halted redemptions at this fund and in
order to do that they sold loans from
the portfolio and the main percentage
the main the majority of those or like
the most type was software loans. Um I
think it was around like 13% or
something like that. So it definitely
could be viewed by some as maybe a way
to kind of limit that software exposure
a little bit.
>> Right. I I mean any specific reason why
and I wonder if we're glossing over just
the headlines here. Why this specific
fund Olivia? And I that just goes to my
next question and how this used to be
just the you know the the corner of the
market for you know that was reserved
largely for institutional investors and
I wonder then how retail investors have
been been recently introduced at this
asset class.
>> Definitely. Yeah. So, this fund actually
is one of the earlier types of funds
that were created to to access retail
investors. And it actually was was
always meant to be sort of um wound
down. And we saw earlier this year that
Pl's attempt to to do that and return
capital to investors was to try to merge
this vehicle with another public fund.
um and doing so would have forced
investors in this fund to take around
20% of losses. Um so after the news of
that came out, Blue scrapped the merger
and now what we're seeing is that this
is sort of the new plan that they've
they've come across to return capital to
investors. Um, so that being said, you
know, there's a lot of I think your
question just underscores the fact that
there's a lot of types of funds that
these private credit managers have
created for retail investors. And I
don't think it's really widely
understood like exactly what type of
funds they are and exactly how investors
get their money back, if that makes
sense.
>> Yeah. And obviously a lot of concerns
because I'm just taking a look at the
share price activity and you're around
50% lower than you were a year ago. So
yeah, obviously a ways for this to
continue playing out. Olivia, thanks
very much for staying up and joining us
this evening. That was our private
credit reporter there, Olivia Fishlo.
And let's actually stay in this space
because Bloomberg's learned that Bank of
America is making a major push into
private credit, committing $25 billion
of its own capital to new lending deals.
Sources say it plans to originate the
deals from its capital markets division,
which is part of its investment banking
business. The move makes Bank of America
one of the last major US lenders to jump
into the booming private credit market.
Meanwhile, Bloomberg has learned that
HSBC has cut 10% of its US-based debt
capital markets team. Sources say at
least six people in New York were let go
on Thursday, including one managing
director and two directors. The bank is
continuing to reduce costs after
announcing a revamp of the business last
October. HSBC is set to report earnings
next week after its US rivals posted
strong results during the fourth
quarter.
>> Right, let's have a look at AI, OpenAI
specifically here. So the company says
it has visibility into its future chip
needs even as of course the broader
trend in the industry is an industry
shortage uh of those things. Uh the
chief global affairs officer of the
company Chris Lhan uh also told us uh
democratic nations need to develop
shared safety standards for AI.
>> Democratic AI is going to prevail or if
the world's going to build out on
democratic AI, I do think the world does
need to work together collectively to
make sure you're addressing and
identifying the elements that are going
to be needed. and look at, you know, we
are and I know you guys talk about this
and cover this in a unique and and um
and perhaps challenging geopolitical
moment where I actually have uh some
optimism in terms of where the world's
going particularly democratic world uh
is that we all are going to have to work
on this together. Democratic societies
um do need to start to develop shared
safety standards on this technology.
you're seeing emerging AI safety
institutes, US, UK, Japan, Australia has
an early version, India's think about an
early version. Um, and he talked about,
you know, can we think about this as
some type of analog um to the IEA, the
international atomic energy uh entity.
Um, but I think like those are the types
of uh of I think muscles that we're
going to really need to develop to
ensure that democratic AI does get
built, but you know, inclusive within
all of that too. How do we all work
together particularly on the supply
chain piece
>> but as it stands now do you see this
chip shortage deepening further and will
that slow down the AI buildout from your
perspective how does it look
>> from our perspective you know I think
look at we feel confident that we have
visibility on to what we are going to
need now we also make sure we sleep with
one eye open uh right because you want
to continue the old line you know uh
trust but verify on all of this you know
we ourselves are um you know working
with a variety of really strategic
partners who are you know really
supportive of us in terms of um access
to chips. You know we ourselves think
about how do we uh impart our knowledge
on chip design.
That was OpenAI's chief global affairs
officer speaking with Bloomberg Insight
anchor Hass Linda Amin in New Delhi. And
we're going to actually have more ahead
from the India AI summit on the China
show that says generate AI which
reshapes industries and government's
race to set rules. We'll speak with whip
rose Ivana Balleti who tells us why
India is uniquely positioned to become a
major AI powerhouse. More ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
All
right. Well, President Trump says he's
directing federal agencies to release
government documents that discuss
extraterrestrial life and other
unexplained aerial phenomenon. Now, I've
got to say this was not the breaking
news that I was expecting to have this
hour, but but it's certainly the one of
the most read stories as well this
morning. So, you've got President Trump
that's gone on to True Social and he's
saying that the US will start to release
files on aliens and UFOs. There's a
little bit of nuance to this, but I
think one of the major things to watch
or to understand about it is that the
former President Barack Obama was
recently on a podcast where he was asked
about the the existence of aliens,
whether they were real or not. And and
uh Obama essentially said
he said they're real on this podcast
earlier this month. And so, President
Trump is saying that that was classified
information. He shouldn't have been
releasing it. And the reason that he now
wants to actually make these documents
public, President Trump says, is also to
to to essentially get Barack Obama out
of trouble. That's that's the view of
President Trump. But but of course, this
is something that Barack Obama has also
been talking about on social media and
giving sort of his side of of that
conversation and what he said on the
podcast.
>> Yeah. said it does seem without having
the benefit of having heard the actual
statement right from the former
president was that the hedge it wasn't
it didn't based on what he said on
social media made it seem like it was a
it wasn't a statement of objective fact
but something that you could deduce
based on the fact that it's just space
is just massive and the probability that
you know we're not alone uh speaks to
the fact that there could be actually uh
extraterrestrial
uh life out. I can't believe we've spent
a lot of time on this, but it's it's
fascinating, I think, in in some ways.
Maybe just one last thing. I think we
have 45 seconds before the break, you
know, and we can talk about AI later,
you know. So, just the stock check, we
can do that later. The when you when you
think about aliens, right, people
immediately go to things that look like
us, intelligent alien life, right? Where
it could be on a underneath the surface
of Europa, which is a moon of Jupiter.
There's a massive ocean of water there
and we could actually find some life. It
doesn't need to be intelligent life, but
I guess we'll we'll find out if they
release the files.
Welcome back to the China show. Taking a
look at the Hangen half an hour into the
session today. First day of trading post
the Luna New Year break and we are
moving to the downside here. Actually
taking a look you've got most stocks
really the vast majority in the hang
index that are in the red. But if
there's sort of a key theme that's
developing, it is a techled sell-off
because you've got 10 cent buddies,
Alibaba amongst the biggest lagards so
far in the session.
>> Yeah. And really in favor of the new new
economy stocks in China, right? Talked
about Miniax and the several not just
one, not just two, but several upgrades
from brokerages uh on the back of that
release that they had on Monday. And I
think shares already reacted, I think 18
or 25% on on Monday towards the close.
We're up a further 6.7. And I'm going to
double check my stats on that as I
speak. Uh ZAI or Drupu is up 19%. So
this new cohort as you can see and
really this underperformance we're
getting from the likes of Baba and BU
just as a proxy I guess to some of the
other ones as well pulling down the
Hangen tech index. So I think this is a
chart that's up that's going to come
later on. Let me just look at what
levels we're at right now. And Miniaax
actually on
>> it was 25%.
>> There we go. Okay. Thank you.
>> On Monday on Monday. So very good day
and we're continuing that today. NK
Cosby, ASX, Straits Times Index coming
up on your screens. And Cosby's up
again. There we go. Bloomberg dollar
index, dollar China. And we're coming
off four days of strength in in the US
currency. We are now that's now day five
as you can see on your screens. Uh
Dollar China 690. We don't have of
course the the your your pivot point
today as it pertains to the ribbon B fix
because mainland markets are still shut.
So we'll get to that later. Um as far as
Brent and West Texas take us really
straight into the Iran story and yeah
further gains not to the extent of
yesterday but still gains nonetheless.
Uh everything from you know one month
implied vault to call SKs are all also
pointing to the upside and suggesting
oil markets and oil traders are getting
geared up for some possibilities in the
Middle East too.
>> Yeah. Well, what you were talking in the
last hour about how much that premium is
being baked in and and what sort of that
that price is being added and you were
saying it's $5 right now. If the if the
tensions dissipate, that $5 goes away.
But there's really a lot of unknowns
exactly exactly what happens in the next
10 to 15 days. We just know that
President Trump is clearly voicing
impatience, I guess, with the situation
right now and has put that deadline in
place.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And this massive buildup in
US military presence in in that part of
the world, right, is something that I
think when you look at that escalation
and the presence there alongside the
premium that's been built in almost
alongside onetoone uh in as far as that
goes. And I think there's also a
fantastic piece from our folks at
Bloomberg economics here that talks
about how as far as what the Iranians
have done as far as the initial response
is they've flexed their muscles
>> as it pertains to the straight of
hormones, right? So they've I think in
the past what they've done is they've
threatened the closure. They've never to
our to my understanding at least they've
never pushed through with a complete
closure because that would also be of
course a shooting themselves in the foot
in as far as the the shipments are
concerned. But yeah. Yeah. Go ahead.
>> Well no I think that's really
interesting as well because last hour we
had the conversation with the former US
ambassador uh James Jeffrey and he was
saying yeah that might be an option but
it's not the option they're likely going
to take. And the reason for that is that
you're going to really bother China. And
that's such a key relationship that
Tyrron has is with Beijing. So they're
not necessarily going to look to react
in that way even if Tyran is being quite
vocal about saying that they will
respond uh with with full force. But of
course a lot of questions around what
would even an attack look like from the
US. Would it be a shore campaign like we
saw in the middle of last year? Would
they go for something more sustained?
Certainly that presence you said the
biggest going back to the early 2000s
does give them the capacity with
aircraft carriers refueling capabilities
as well to really be there for for a
much longer time period
>> and what would that mean for the Iranian
regime where the point of the guest we
were talking to earlier on of course was
as far as their motivations are
concerned given what's been happening
domestically there is also survival of
the regime right so something just to uh
to consider as well uh can we just very
quickly let's show that graphic up of
oil. So we know where oil is at 71. Um
and we talked about this premium that's
been built in. I think we showed the
graphic just to explain that a little
bit further. So it's currently at five
bucks is the estimate coming from
Bloomberg economics here, right? As far
as the the the geopolitical premium
>> on top of where demand and supply and
that equilibrium price takes you. So
call it 66 bucks if this goes away,
assuming it goes away. If of course
these estimates are bang in line but
just also to consider that the premium
could blow up significantly in the same
way it has done recent uh in in recent
years if in fact this these things will
escalate from here.
>> Yeah, let's get more of that. Oil
trading reporter Wrongway now joining us
from Singapore. So Wrongway, thanks very
much for for taking the time to speak
with us. How are you looking at the
risks in the market right now and also
that premium I guess and and how much
has already been baked into prices?
>> Right. So now the risk has just gotten a
lot more real uh in the past week. uh
we've seen the US military forces of
kind of piled up uh in the Middle
Eastern regions and the latest
development is Trump of course giving a
physical a tangible deadline to Iran to
agree to a nuclear deal and that's of
course a huge step up from what we have
seen uh from the past couple of days a
lot of um a lot of uh twists and turns
uh in negotiations
a lot of uh inconclusive talks so um the
presence uh the increasing presence of
the military forces in the Middle East
is a clearest signal to the market that
perhaps things could escalate. But of
course uh I do have to say u right now
we are seeing prices in the steadies
territory. Uh we haven't been seeing um
further increase in prices. uh that's
because everyone's still taking a wait
and see approach because ultimately if
uh a conflict between the US and Iran
breaks out uh what's really uh what
really matters to the physical market if
is it is if there's any disruption to
the street of Hammuz which is a key
passage for the Middle East of course a
major oil producer in the world to ship
out their oil to buyers especially uh
for huge importers uh like the countries
in Asia. So um there's a lot of
speculations. It's a lot of guess work.
Uh it's unclear that if a conflict
breaks out uh what could be the
infrastructure, energy infrastructure
that could be affected and what would be
the fate of the straits.
>> Okay. Uh so let's let's talk scenarios
then. In the event we do get a military
escalation, I think it depends of course
on the type and the extent to which, but
are there is there a range in prices
that analysts are now penciling in if in
fact we get to that escalation? And on
the over supply question, what is the
fundamental story of oil look like if we
were to strip out this geopolitical
premium?
>> Right. So of course uh fundamentally the
narrative hasn't quite shifted. Uh the
oil market is still on track for an over
supply this year. But what uh is up for
discussion really is the shape of how
this uh over supply would take. Like for
instance at the recent IE week in
London, a lot of oil executives have
pushed back on u talks about an
impending surplus. A lot of people in
the market are saying, "Hey, we've been
talking about this global glut for a
while, but we haven't really seen it
manifest. So where could it be?" And uh
I think one uh one hint that we are
seeing in the physical markets is the
buildup of oil stuck on water. So there
is a huge hoorde of oil uh that's out
there floating at sea held in tankers
and by and large they are sanctioned uh
cargos which means that only a limited
pool of buyers uh can actually bring
them in. So um what oil executives are
saying is that yes uh there is an over
supply but uh this supply is not meant
for them. So um and in fact uh with more
and more um with more and more oil
importers um shifting away from
sanctioned crude uh there is increased
competition uh for your mainstream uh
conventional crude grades which has also
lent a bit of bullishness to today's oil
prices
>> wrongway thank you wrongway there in
Singapore for us on the oil story here
let's bring in he senior market analyst
at multiasset CFD broker Vant age
markets. He good morning from Hong Kong.
Thank you for joining us here. So, how I
mean every time we discount geopolitics
as a risk, it it rears its ugly head and
here we are again talking about it. So,
how do we need to be discounting not
just geopolitical risk but also the
potential for energy price inflation
right now as you you know sort of map
out markets?
>> Yes, indeed. I feel that we talk about
geopolitical tension more frequent than
ever. I think in the past two or three
years we have keep talking about that.
Now I feel that this is not just a
temporary um risk that we used to
thought that it was but now can kind of
embed it into the economy whole
landscape as you mentioned that not only
that will probably limit in just in the
oil prices but the next question is what
will be the impact for the inflation. I
think I 100% agree with that what long
way is saying that there's a quite a lot
of guesswork about when we're talking
about geopolitical retention everyone
are asking about what's the next and so
the market will kind of the putting the
risk premium I saw that previously that
market seems to putting a $5 risk
premium for the oil prices but
potentially if you're looking back into
last June when the US attacked the the
Iran street nuclear site the prices even
spike above the $78 so that sort of
potential potential the market real
price in whether or not they will
translate into inflation we do see that
happening back into 2022 and if that's
the pattern I think that's probably the
worry that we have to concerned about
and pricing for the not just the oil
price energy prices but also equity
markets as well
>> so how do you go about constructing an
envi a portfolio in this sort of
environment if you're saying that
geopolitical risk is is sort of the new
normal now
>> yes indeed I think that is a new normal
more and um I think rather than
previously we're talking about 4060 or
even 3070 I think that probably in
moving forward in under the portfolio or
probably the geopolitical h and under
this h I think that will be a part of
them will coming from the resilient
assets like precious metal we already
seeing that has spiking that reflecting
this trend also something if you're
looking about the um equity market that
will probably more selective about the
particular industry or particular
company they do have the resilience
either in terms of supply chain or
either in terms of the target market
they could bear the risk for whenever
the geopolitical tension attack this
industry or attack the uh economy as a
whole.
uh he you uh you're what what's your
take on this either buy America or sell
America you know trading strategy and I
also want to get the take from your
perspective on the flows you're seeing
uh and as far as you know the different
products and you know flow products you
guys have their advantage market
>> well I think there's a two side of story
I'm looking at that you mentioned about
buy or sell America I think from the
they do have a particular buy I think
Today the Bloomberg headline saying that
the global falling interest in the US
equity market is still very high
actually getting into the record high in
2025. They're showing that even the
people talking about this a bit of the
diversification the main interest still
stays and not even mentioning because
the US stock market is where the center
of the technology development but on the
other hand if you're looking for the
currency wise I do believe that the
basement trade that we talk more often
in 2025 that questioning over the um the
government's control of the balance
sheet that question I do expect it will
keep staying and even growing bigger in
that sense I will have taken a more
bearish view over the US dollar or over
the physical asset um for the US. So I
think there will be two kind of view the
buying asset I was saying that the
buying American asset equity the high
growth companies that will still
continue to v it but on the other hand
the currency water debasement trade will
continue to be a main trend that I will
keep in mind.
One of the the the trends as well that
we were watching this year was this
rotation trade into into cyclicals,
defensive stocks as well. It seems like
maybe that's starting to give up and we
had the Walmart earnings for instance
and they were signaling some caution and
we saw weakness there. Do you think
we're going to see that that bigger
rotation back into big tech again?
>> Well, I think that will happen. Um and
talking about you saying about the
cautious the concern over the big tax I
would say that at this stage the market
is seems to more react to a sentiment
scare. There is a heavy emotional
discount to looking for the AI related.
I saw the headlines yesterday saying
that every just everything but no AI. Um
the two major concern that we talk most
about on the headlines one is about over
overspending over investment that's
primarily applicable to the max 7 on the
other hand is about the AI disruption
but just looking for the overspending
that can send here if that really
translate into the damage to the
profitability we could already seeing
that in the recent earnings but instead
if you're looking for the Q4 earnings
the earnings growth from the technology
sector is 30% versus only 13% well which
is still good number for the general S&P
500 and the defensive stock that you
mentioned that only contribute roughly
about 5% of endings growth so the market
now is taking a view that we want to
heavily rotate into the sectors only
grow the endings only grow about 5% to
10% and then we abandon the sectors that
do the heavy lifting that contribute
about 30%. I think this probably more
reflect the psychological reason rather
than a technical evaluation reason. So I
think that's my take away from that. M
>> and that's interesting that you frame it
that way that the markets you know
you're getting alpha from in other
markets at least large cap stocks and I
think the the phenomenon in China is you
are getting the 5 to 10% earnings from
large cap stocks but the smaller alphas
you're getting from you know currently
not as large right so the the index push
is is is not as apparent as say Korea
for example I want to get your thoughts
on um we were speaking earlier on with
yen Wong and his take on his outlook for
Chinese stocks given that discrepancy
between the hot spots in the market. Uh
let's play it out guys please if we can.
>> Uh my view is China will likely uh
outperform uh for the year. Um because
um the key event uh that investors still
need to keep in mind will be um the
policy choices that Beijing would have
you know will tell us uh in the people's
congress uh next month. So what kind of
you know cyclical policies uh what
measures Beijing will have to do to
really boost domestic demand? I think
that is still um the there's still a lot
of expectation uh going into that.
>> Kibi, do you think Chinese markets will
Chinese stocks will outperform as
cyclicality comes back in the market?
>> Well, I think the Chinese market will
doing well but probably for a bit
different reason from the the way one
just mentioned. And I think that I'd
refer back to your point that you saying
that previously Chinese market is the
big cap that carried about 5% of ending
growth but now that it seems to a shift
especially for the past two years that a
shifting into a technology into the high
growth stocks and companies that
probably were taking more heavy lifting
for this year. I think that's why I'm
positive about in terms of way just
saying about the policy choice here. I
always have a bit of question mark here
because the policy choice is something
that we have talked about actually since
the end of pandemic in the past three
years we keep talking about the Chinese
policy could help to support the
domestic man could support the property
prices but yet until today that we
haven't seen that any solid numbers wise
they're showing that this really work
maybe that's not substantial enough or
maybe it takes time but in my personal
point of view I think after waiting for
this two or three years of talking about
policy support. It's probably the time
to let's show us the real number before
that we putting too much hope into that.
Let that's my my thought of that.
>> He great to speak with you this morning.
We got Hong Kong. You can see there
already 1% down as we go through the
morning session. But that was he Chen,
senior market analyst at Vantage
Markets. Coming up, we're going to shift
to Hello Kitty and Demon Slayer. We're
looking at how Japanese moguls are
turning cultural power into billiondoll
businesses. The full story is next. This
is Bloomberg.
Well, from Hello Kitty to Demon Slayer,
Japan's pop culture is now the country's
second most valuable export after cars.
And it's even outpacing semiconductors.
Bloomberg's been looking into the mogul
turning kawaii and anime into
billiondoll empires and driving Japan's
soft power boom. Let's bring in our
Japan Japan equities reporter rather,
Alice French for more. So yeah, really
great piece, Alice. And and I'm I'm
curious for your your view on on the
names that stand out on the list and and
just in general who is making the cut as
well.
>> Morning. Yes. I mean, you know, if you
take a scroll down the list, I think
there'll be some familiar names in
there. We've got the Suji family which
are behind Sanio, of course, the
licenser of Hello Kitty. There are some
video games in there. Bandai Namco,
Konami, some people might be familiar
with. What really sort of stuck out to
me is actually the range of this kind of
pop culture industry that Japan has has
really managed to build out in the last
few years since the pandemic. Right? So,
we've got the the obvious ones, the IPs
and the video games, but it also spreads
to things like hotels. We've got Appa
Group in there. I think anyone who's
taken a trip to Japan recently will
probably be familiar with their hotels.
Very reasonably priced um compact rooms
there. We've even got um Toridol down at
the bottom of the list there which runs
these udon restaurants. We've even got
three coins, which is sort of like the
equivalent of a dollar store here, but
they sell everything from sort of
headphones and makeup to home wear and
and goods linked to to those popular IP
like Hello Kitty as well. So, it's
really kind of the range of how much
this industry has been built out. And as
you mentioned there, it's even overtaken
semiconductors in terms of the value of
exports in 2023. And I think a lot of
the driver behind this is actually the
weak yen and sort of the boost in
tourism that Japan has seen, right?
Yeah. Okay. So, talk to us then about
the factors behind why you know this
jump from pop culture and why it has
created just vast amounts of of of
wealth among of course the big players
there.
>> Yeah. I mean it's quite impressive as I
said there of course the week yen is a
big driver in terms of actually bringing
people from outside into Japan. In the
past couple of years, we know we've been
getting kind of month after month of
record tourist numbers. And of course,
that's just helping to kind of boost the
appeal of Japanese culture. But I think
also during the pandemic, if we think
about it, right, a lot of us were stuck
at home looking for things to do. I
think that's really where things like
Japanese games, anime, manga sort of
came into their own. And I think also
the companies themselves and we've sort
of seen this with even bigger players
like Nintendo, they've been focusing a
lot on sort of global expansion and also
diversification of the products that
they offer. You know, we've even seen um
Nintendo and also Sandio opening theme
parks in recent years, right? Sort of
branching out from from that sort of
hardware um side of the IP business. um
a lot of companies focusing a lot more
on things like social media, getting
more content out there in the English
language, which I think has really
helped to sort of drive this boom. But I
do think in terms of kind of bringing
people here and for those kind of live
experienced tourism names, the weekend
has been a huge driver, right? And I
know it's strengthened a little bit in
the past few weeks, but it's still weak
and it's still cheap to come here. And I
think that's a trend that that we'll see
continuing, you know, this year as well.
It's interesting that you've got two
sort of dynamics here. You've got by
Japan when it comes to the cultural
icons. You've also got by Japan in
equities. And I think that, you know,
there's not many people that could make
a link between the two, but I think
you're one of them. So, what is the
relationship that you see?
>> I'm watching.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, look, just for
example, a lot of the names on this
list, the listed companies, you know,
their stocks did hit all-time highs last
year. Sandio's stock has been on a
massive rally really since 2024, partly
linked to to the anniversary of Hello
Kitty. But yeah, I mean, look, the
strength of Japan's stock market is
definitely a huge factor here, right? As
you say, we're seeing this buy Japan
trend really kind of exploding since, of
course, Takayichi's historic win in the
election a couple of weeks ago. Um, and
I think this spreads to kind of all
corners of the market, not just content,
but of course we're seeing it in things
like ship building, we're seeing it in
quantum computing, we've seen it in the
kind of nuclear fusion um, corner of the
market, too. And there's just that kind
of like I think a lot of excitement
around Japanese equities, partly from
Takayichi's spending policies and and
content, I have to say, is one of the
sectors that she's highlighted as well
in her policies, but also, you know,
we've got the backdrop of corporate
governance reforms. Like I mentioned, we
have the weak yen boosting exporters and
of course, you know, to top it all off,
we now have this great political
stability which I think especially at a
time when things are looking uncertain
across the rest of the world, Japan
looks very attractive.
>> Alice, thank you so much. Alice French
in Tokyo for us or Japan equities
reporter. By the way, you can read the
full report u from uh by Alice and the
rest of the team there. the billionaires
behind Japan's cultural icons. That is
on the terminal and also on
bloomberg.com.
Right, welcome back. Uh some of the
early movers right now as we resume
trading here in Hong Kong uh following
the Luna New Year break. There we go. A
lot of the travel related stocks uh
under pressure. Uh Asia energy stocks
also in focus given the up arrow story
we've seen in oil uh the last few days
or so. We are at 7172 there on Brent and
across the region we are getting a bid
across these big names.
It's 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese
markets are just about to go into their
lunch break. Really setting the tone of
what we see across Asian equities today.
Uh in the red essentially, but 1.3% to
the downside for the Nicke25. There's
two different factors that we're
watching in Japan today. Firstly, of
course, you've got these broader macro
fears. What is the US going to be doing
in terms of of Iran? Uh they're massing
these these strike capabilities
essentially in the nearby waters. How
exactly are they going to be acting? And
what are the ramifications as well? We
have been watching oil for instance
trending up to around $72 a barrel. But
also locally in Japan, we had some
comments out from the Japan Bankers
Association, the B Bo BOJ rather may
raise rates as soon as March of this
year. So that's also just pressuring
sentiment somewhat.
>> Yeah, it it really is. And I think what
I think when you look at 15514 on dollar
yen after the well, first I think we're
coming off four days of strength in the
Japanese currency. Hence, we're at 155.
We're we're day number five right now.
And that I think was because of the CPI
print which came in and lifted Jolliad
even further, then pushed BBDXY into
green territory. Uh which is why we're
now looking at 5 days of of of strength
there in just tying it back to the macro
side of things. Okay. Uh very quickly, I
think we're also looking at uh about an
hour into the uh year of the horse cash
market session in Hong Kong.
Specifically, Hansen Tech index did
enter a bare market uh in early this
month. Uh we did manage to bounce off
that sort of 20% threshold, but with
this decline we're seeing right now in
the order last I checked of about two or
so percent, we have sunk deeper into
that. So let's call it 21 22% down now
from the peak there on Hen Tech Index.
You do have some underperformers like
Alibaba, BU, we showed you that earlier
on. Some of the outperformers like
Miniaax and ZAI and the Hong Kong
stories also taken some focus here
because of some of the Hong Kong
specific names have really been
outperforming. MCI Hong Kong
outperforming MCI China. As you can see,
these property names and financials have
really been punching substantially
higher uh in recent weeks. Maybe that
might be down to the fact that economy
is doing well and that you have interest
rates high bore which is something we're
tracking
>> at three month lows and we'll see what
the update looks like in about 45
minutes from now.
>> Yeah. Let's uh let's also just keep a
watch on another big story we've had
this week. That's the India AI impact
summit that's been underway and Prime
Minister Narendra Mod's efforts of
course to turn the nation into a major
player in the sector. Uh just taking a
look at some of the big announcements
that we've had so far coming out of the
event. So Reliance for instance that
major conglomerate says it's investing
more than hundred billion dollars in AI
over the next few years. We've heard
from the National Payments Corporation
of India for instance they're saying
they're partnering with Nvidia to
develop AI models and uh ASML as well
has been active. They're saying that
they're actually talking with the
government right now because of course
we know that big push from the Modi
administration has been to make chips
locally.
>> Yeah. uh some of the highlights just
there. Uh what is missing though and I
think we'll talk about this later was
that awkward moment on stage yesterday
but anyway let's talk about more things
on the ground. Let's bring in our next
guest from the sidelines of the
conference in New Delhi. Uh Ivana
Bartelli is the chief uh global chief
privacy and AI governance officer at
Whipro joining us right now. Ivana, good
morning from Hong Kong. Thank you for
taking the time to speak with us. I
mean, given the day job and your job
title and your mandate, you'd be really
in a good position uh to tell us the
riskreward of this new technology we're
starting to just understand globally.
So, if it worries you, it should be
worrying many people. If it doesn't,
then that's more hours of good sleep for
us, I guess. What worries you about this
technology?
>> Thank you very much for having me. I
think uh um there are things that worry
and things that excite. But I think uh
optimism and excitement take precedence
in the sense that I am quite reassured
by what we have heard um this week in
this summit here in New Delhi. Um the
key word of the summit has been around
inclusion has been around
democratization of artificial
intelligence and I think there is an
awareness that alongside fantastic
opportunities that we are seeing day in
day out um with artificial intelligence
there are risks and the risks are around
security are around disinformation are
around the perpetuation of existing bias
into decision making made by algorithms
and now with aentic AI taking center
stage uh this year. Clearly uh that
brings new complexities from a security
and architectural but also from an
ethical standpoint. But the key words
here have been really about inclusion.
Um I am when I'm sitting at the moment I
can see just in front of me I can see a
poster which says for India artificial
in the intelligence stands for inclusion
for all and that reminds me uh of you
know the key essence of the summit which
was also the key essence of Modi's
speech yesterday which positioned India
as a country to do innovation with
because it combines the ability of scale
up artificial intelligence and
technology on a country 1 billion people
with an enormous appetite that people
here in India have for innovation and
transformation.
What is the the the capacity though of
India really do you think to to have a a
a share or a say on the global stage
because this has really looked so much
like a two-horse race between the US and
China when it comes to the entire AI
stack.
Yeah, I mean this is a very good point.
I mean I think in this positioning ourel
as a different and uh way of doing
things which is is fairly understandable
in if you think about as you mentioned
the fact that we live in a world where
uh large technology companies are in
mainly two places in the world the
United States and China. what Modi said
yesterday quite clearly well we are open
to innovation we have the ability to
scale up we can't produce things and
then bring it to the rest of the world
um so the message was develop and solve
here in India and then bring it around
the world it is clearly a different way
of doing things from a regulatory
standpoint as well it's really important
to note that India is positioning itself
as a safe partner to do innovation with
they have adopted a tech techno legal
approach which is for example different
from other approaches around the world
which is very much around full life
accountability as uh of any AI system.
There is one point that is also very
much worth mentioning which is yes this
is a this has been a summit about uh
inclusion about democratization about
impact on the world on the economy but
is also very much been a summit about
infrastructure because as was mentioning
uh mentioned earlier AI is not just
about technology AI needs land AI needs
earth AI needs minerals so u the
investments that we have seen are very
very crucial. So companies investing in
in data centers and um and in a country
like India where the government
announced a tax relief for company uh
investing in data centers as well as in
cables as the announcement coming from
Google. So it's really important to
understand that infrastructure plays a
key part in all of this and this is also
where India is trying to really put uh
themselves in the race.
How much do you think though the the the
comments that we get from government
officials is really lip service
essentially because yeah I mean we talk
all the time about about AI being a a a
democratization force that it has the
power to be inclusive but increasingly
the way that it shapes up is that this
is really just in the control of big
tech that's essentially unregulated or
or lacks a lot of regulation at least in
the US and this is really about just
jockeying for influence. and and for
also for for economic gain. I mean, do
you really get that sense that that that
governments have any sort of say in the
way that this technology is being
developed at scale?
>> Well, there are two things I believe
that we need to take into consideration.
One is the unicity of India and we can't
really um have a discussion on this
without thinking of where India stands
and the peculiarity of this country. So
when um when uh president when prime
minister Modi says um inclusion uh what
they mean is AI that works for India um
and that means for example respecting
the diversity of languages here. It
means respective respecting the u the
broad uh norms that are in India. So not
just importing tools that come from
other parts of the world but also can be
deployed and use cases that can really
serve the Indian market. Now in a
country like India talking inclusion is
not just about the nice thing to do.
Talking inclusion in India is also about
economic growth and is about
performance. So we have to take into
consideration the peculiarity of India
is uh and so while I reiterate you know
talking inclusion in India is about
token performance and this is very very
important. Um I think yes there is it's
obviously this is a market which is
dominated by large corporations. I mean
I think the United Nations general
secretary yesterday said it very very
clearly. Um and I think it's important
and this is also why many countries
around the world are developing uh their
own strategy for uh for strategic
sovereignty in in particular areas where
that is very much needed. Um I think uh
the also the investment and the uh that
that prime minister Modi yesterday made
on open source is something that is very
very relevant what he's uh basically
said yesterday we need open source it
has to be very very important uh an
important part of our growth strategy
and I think this is um again one point
that uh um goes in the direction on more
um sort of so strategic sovereign and
autonomy
Ivana just the we we've seen in market
stock markets in the last let's call it
two weeks or so uh investors have been
incredibly concerned uh about you know
AI replacing wholesale replacement of
sectors right now I know it's you know
markets tend to look at these things as
binary the reality some are probably in
the middle but that list includes
software ware and consulting services
like your company for example. Uh I
wonder is this an existential threat for
the industry? How do we need to be
looking framing this dilemma of AI as an
opportunity or as a threat?
>> Yeah, I mean it's uh it's uh it's clear
that AI is changing the landscape but I
think what we have seen in the last few
weeks is not really um it's been a as
you say a very binary reaction. Now uh
of course AI is going to have an impact
and we see this but the customer
ccentric approach and the fact that AI
needs to be modulated on organizations
and the centricity that that big
organizations and for example our
clients that we work with this is um
going to remain and remain quite firmly.
So of course there are there are
disruption but you know we welcome
disruptions in the sense that disruption
can be um uh daunting but they also
fantastic opportunity and I believe that
the entire sector uh that I'm part of in
uh in India which is a sector that is uh
uh coming out very strongly in this uh
in this summit I think is demonstrated
that yes changes there but the customer
centricity and working directly with
dark organ with with large organizations
that is going to remain moving forward.
>> Ivana, thank you so much for taking the
time to speak with us today. Ivana
Bartletti there, global chief privacy
and AI governance officer at at we're
also out of the India AI summit. Of
course, we I think Belle and I just
alluded to this a few seconds back this
awkward moment and I'm sure the world
has seen this between two of the most
important executives in the sectors
there. Bel, why don't you give us a bit
of background here? It's a great I mean
you can just see there okay to the right
of Modi on the screen you can see the
CEOs of of OpenAI Sam Alman of course
and Anthropic and and everyone else is
is holding hands with each other
clasping hands but those two on the
stage
>> now Sam Alman is saying he didn't know
what was going on and he didn't know
what the plan was but I think it
certainly speaks to what is very much a
professional rivalry at least between
these two because the CEO CEO rather of
anthrop IC actually used to work at
OpenAI and then he left it when he felt
like it was becoming too commercially
focused and these two companies have
just been going head to head this year
uh on a range of different releases
essentially. Anthropic of course has
been very popular with enterprise
clients in particular and you've seen
all the releases Anthropic makes. It's
causing shock waves through various
industries as well and and so yeah maybe
Samwin doesn't like it. Samwin certainly
did not like the uh Super Bowl ads that
Anthropic placed as well.
>> Yeah. Although that was rather clearer
than than whether or not he actually
knew what was going on on stage. I I
think when you look at the video to he
was I think the first one off the stage
very very quickly. Uh and I now wonder
whether you humans or AI had some role
in actually determining where each of
the individuals were placed on stage.
And you know, you have to give it if
this went to humans like something maybe
uh there was a bit of banter I guess in
that too and it worked out I think in
the world as the world unfolded before
the world as as we just said awkwardly.
>> Whoever made that uh that that chart for
the for the standing positions might
have had a few words after after this
whole photo op went down. But anyway uh
we will leave that there. Of course this
moment has been going viral for for very
obvious and clear reason. Look at his
face. He's very unimpressed on one
there. All right. You can, of course,
don't forget we've got this new function
to show you as well. Uh it's it's the
Bloomberg video hub as well. Uh
subscribers can explore live streaming,
news, interviews, all of our Bloomberg
TV shows, documentaries, reporter
analysis, and more. So, do check it out.
That's bloomberg.com/vide.
This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back. And here are some of the
big corporate stories we're tracking
today. Blue Osh shares plunged in New
York. That's after the alternative
investment firm said it will restrict
withdrawals from one of its retail
focused private credit funds. The
company says the fund will instead
return capital through periodic
distributions funded by loan repayments,
asset sales, or other transactions. The
move highlights the risks confronting
retail investors entering the fast
growing private credit market.
Bloomberg has learned that Bank of
America is making a major push into
private credit, committing $25 billion
of its own capital to new lending deals.
Sources say it plans to originate the
deals from its capital markets division,
which is part of its IB business. The
move makes Bank of America one of the
last major US lenders to jump into the
booming private credit market.
The Netflix coco Ted Sandos says the
streaming giant's bid to acquire Warner
Brothers Discovery will offer great
value to shareholders of both companies.
He says a merger would lead to more
films in theaters if the deal goes
through. Addressing a key complaint from
Hollywood, Netflix is vying with
Paramount Sky Dance to buy Warner
Studios and streaming business.
>> All right, so we think this deal will
have a positive impact on the business
for the long term. Uh remember what
we're doing in buying these assets is
we've been creating original programming
on Netflix for about a decade. Um
they've been making original films and
series for about a hundred years. uh
they have incredible IP and we just
happen to have a consumer model that can
better maximize the returns on that IP.
So I think it's a very it's a great
long-term out you know long-term
outcome.
>> All right now not coming soon on Netflix
uh Demon Hunters or the sequel at least.
So fans will have to wait a longer
period of time for the sequel. Well, the
streaming giant finalized deals for a
second movie with Sony Pictures
Animation, the studio that developed, of
course, a smash, the the demon slashing
hit. But the creator, Maggie Kang, uh
told Bloomberg exclusively not to expect
a sequel to hit screens anytime soon.
>> I don't know what I will do next. I
really don't. Um but I can't really
share that at the moment. But
>> But there's a sequel surely. I mean, I
can't really say that officially, but I
would say I would be shocked. I mean, in
a world where that loves sequels, if
it's I don't think it's a surprise that
something something else could be
coming, but I don't know. It's going to
be a long wait for anything. Um,
unfortunately,
>> why
>> animation just takes a long time. It's
just um
>> Well, does it have to be animation? What
about a liveaction version? M I really
think there's so much that the animation
medium brings to the film, the tone of
the movie, the the types of characters
that we were able to create, the type of
comedy that we we were able to push, the
drama. So, I firmly believe that the
movie couldn't have seen success if it
was live action.
And you can watch the full conversation
between Maggi Kong and Michelle Hussein
on bloomberg.com/videos
or listen as well wherever you get your
podcasts. We'll have more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
Welcome back. Here are some big
headlines we're following right now. So,
foreign investors bought the most
Japanese stocks and futures in more than
a decade. In days following uh Prime
Minister Sai Takai's election win, uh
Japan exchange data shows foreigners
bought a net 11.5 billion dollars worth
uh in the week that ended Feb 13. That's
the most since November of 2014. Now,
Takahuchi's victory has fueled
expectations of political stability and
more government spending.
The US annual trade deficits with China
shrank in 2025 to the smallest in more
than two decades. That's as President
Trump's sweeping tariffs reordered
global trade. The US deficits with
Mexico and Vietnam widened to record
levels. According to Bloomberg
Economics, the effective tariff rate on
US imported goods now stands at 13.6%.
Meanwhile on that, Taiwan surplus with
the US nearly doubled last year on a
surge in semiconductor and electronics
exports. US data show uh that Taiwan in
fact overtaking mainland China as a
source of US imports as the global
chipmaking hub grows in importance on
surging AI demand.
>> All right, let's take a look at what we
are going to be watching next week
because we have got a number of
different events we're watching for. Of
course, I think the big one for us is
going to be mainland markets reopening
Tuesday after what's been a 9-day
holiday. So, one of the longest Luna New
Year breaks we've seen. We've already
had some in indicators around passenger
travel, for instance, we have seen some
upside there, but but at the same time,
travel stocks were in the red today and
broadly Hong Kong hasn't come back in a
in a great uh position either. What else
are we watching? I think that the State
of the Union address is going to be
really key because President Trump is
already sort of indicating that big
focus is going to be on the economy. He
also seems to be sort of shifting his
messaging around that because he's
saying he's won on affordability. So,
that's coming up midweek. Uh but but
also a range of different uh ecoata data
points to watch as well. Yeah, I think
we kick things off on the 24th
uh with loan prime rates, which by the
way, if markets were open right now,
should be coming out today uh because
it's typically out on calendar uh day
20th of the month. But yes, anyway, we
stay tuned for that in a couple of days.
Loan prime rates. You have the Hong Kong
budget of course, which is also towards
the mid latter part of next week, which
is something to watch. Of course, that's
towards around this time of this time of
the day. So certainly things like
infrastructure spend, housing and the
property market always features quite
highly of course as far as the budget
the budget is concerned and that's also
to mention and just to sort of tie those
two things together as far as markets
go. Financials and property have been
the big big winners in the Hong Kong
markets recently. So I think you have
HSBC really one of the big winners will
be out with earnings next week as well.
So we're getting into earnings in the
thick of things next week.
>> Yeah. And I think uh just on on moving
away sort of from that that Hong Kong
improving fundamental story, even though
you've got for instance New World,
that's going to be a really key one to
track as well. Uh but but also in the
tech space, I think BU numbers are going
to be really interesting to watch
because you got that stock in the red
today. Uh they did have uh some
announcements around share buybacks for
instance, dividend announcements as well
uh just a few weeks back. So how that
kind of plays into the figures will be
interesting. but also just because
you've got so much focus on the AI
upstarts like Miniax and and JIUP for
instance in the session today. How are
sort of the the incumbents as well
fairing in this space?
>> Okay. Yeah. So I guess lots on deck as
we silently
uh fold into the weekend and we'll see
you all of course uh on Monday. Just
something to watch of course hanging
index last hour of trade highs coming
out in the next hour and yeah that's it
from us as we go into the weekend. I'm
actually looking at aliens specifically
because of the headlines that's come
through this hour of course. But that's
just me. I don't know about you. That's
it from us here on the China show. Happy
weekend. We'll see you all on Monday.